docs: vite 7.0 blog post (#20119)
vitejs/vite: docs/blog/announcing-vite7.md

---
title: Vite 7.0 is out!
author:
  name: The Vite Team

> date: 2025-05-26

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2025-06-19
```

> date: 2025-06-19

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2025-06-24
```

sidebar: false
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:type
      content: website
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: Announcing Vite 7
  - - meta
    - property: og:image
      content: https://vite.dev/og-image-announcing-vite7.png
  - - meta
    - property: og:url
      content: https://vite.dev/blog/announcing-vite7
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: Vite 7 Release Announcement
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: summary_large_image
---

# Vite 7.0 is out!

> _May 26, 2025_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_June 19, 2025_
```

![Vite 7 Announcement Cover Image](/og-image-announcing-vite7.png)

We're happy to share the release of Vite 7! It has been 5 years since Evan You sent the first commit to the Vite repo, and nobody could have predicted how much the frontend ecosystem would change since then. Most modern frontend frameworks and tools are now working together, building on top of Vite's shared infrastructure. And they can innovate at a faster pace by sharing at a higher level. Vite is now being downloaded 27.5 million times a week, with a 10 million increase in the last six months since the previous major release.

This year, we're making several big steps. To start with, [ViteConf](https://viteconf.org) is going to be in person! The Vite Ecosystem will gather in Amsterdam on October 9-10! Organized by [JSWorld](https://jsworldconference.com/) in partnership with [Bolt](https://bolt.new), [VoidZero](https://voidzero.dev), and the Vite Core Team! We had three incredible [ViteConf online editions](https://www.youtube.com/@viteconf/playlists), and we can't wait to meet in real life. Check out the speakers and get your ticket at the [ViteConf site](https://viteconf.org)!

> And [VoidZero](https://voidzero.dev/posts/announcing-voidzero-inc) continues to make significant strides in its mission to build an open source unified development toolchain for the JavaScript ecosystem. Over the last year, the VoidZero team has been working on [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs/), a Rust-based next-generation bundler, as part of a broader effort to modernize Vite's core. You can try out the Rolldown-powered Vite today by using the rolldown-vite package instead of the default vite package. It is a drop-in replacement, as Rolldown will become the default bundler for Vite in the future. Switching should reduce your build time, especially for larger projects. Read more at the [Rolldown-vite announcement blog post](https://voidzero.dev/posts/announcing-rolldown-vite).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And [VoidZero](https://voidzero.dev/posts/announcing-voidzero-inc) continues to make significant strides in its mission to build an open source unified development toolchain for the JavaScript ecosystem. Over the last year, the VoidZero team has been working on [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs/), a Rust-based next-generation bundler, as part of a broader effort to modernize Vite's core. You can try out the Rolldown-powered Vite today by using the `rolldown-vite` package instead of the default `vite` package. It is a drop-in replacement, as Rolldown will become the default bundler for Vite in the future. Switching should reduce your build time, especially for larger projects. Read more at the [Rolldown-vite announcement blog post](https://voidzero.dev/posts/announcing-rolldown-vite) and our [migration guide](https://vite.dev/rolldown).
```

> VoidZero has also partnered with [NuxtLabs](https://nuxtlabs.com/). Anthony Fu will work on creating Vite DevTools, a tool that will offer deeper and more insightful debugging and analysis for all projects and frameworks built on top of Vite. You can read more on the [VoidZero and NuxtLabs join forces on Vite Devtools blog post](https://voidzero.dev/posts/voidzero-nuxtlabs-vite-devtools).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Through a partnership between VoidZero and with [NuxtLabs](https://nuxtlabs.com/), Anthony Fu is working on creating Vite DevTools. They will offer deeper and more insightful debugging and analysis for all Vite-based projects and frameworks. You can read more on the [VoidZero and NuxtLabs join forces on Vite Devtools blog post](https://voidzero.dev/posts/voidzero-nuxtlabs-vite-devtools).
```

## Default Browser Target Changed to Baseline Widely Available

[Baseline](https://web-platform-dx.github.io/web-features/) gives us clear information about which web platform features work across their core browser set today. Baseline Widely Available indicates the feature is well-established and works across many devices and browser versions, being available across browsers for at least 30 months.

In Vite 7, the default browser target is changing from `'modules'` to a new default: `'baseline-widely-available'`. The set of browsers will be updated on each major to match the list of minimum browser versions compatible with Baseline Widely available features. The default browser value of `build.target` is changing in Vite 7.0:

- Chrome 87 → 107
- Edge 88 → 107
- Firefox 78 → 104
- Safari 14.0 → 16.0

This change add predictability to the default browser target for future releases.

## Vitest

> For Vitest users, Vite 7.0 is supported from Vitest 3.2. You can read more about how the Vitest team keeps improving Vite testing story in the [Vitest 3.2 release blog post](https://vitest.dev/blog/vitest-3.2.html).

Reviewer 3: the correct link seems to be: https://vitest.dev/blog/vitest-3-2.html

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For Vitest users, Vite 7.0 is supported from Vitest 3.2. You can read more about how the Vitest team keeps improving Vite testing story in the [Vitest 3.2 release blog post](https://vitest.dev/blog/vitest-3-2.html).
```
Thanks!
